We are going to move on to code splitting,
or more specifically,
advanced React performance.
We're gonna do two different things.
We're gonna do code splitting, and
then we're gonna do server
side rendering together.
Which is kind of exciting for
me because I used to have to do
these sections separately,
because code splitting and
server side rendering used to
not play together very well.
Finally, with React 18,
they made them play well together,
which I'm very happy about.
So if you're like me and
you were working on a copy of context,
you can just go ahead and dump that.
And I am going to grab another copy of,
Let's see, I'll just do it this way.
Copy.
Okay, call this current again.
I'm gonna have to stop this, and
then I'm gonna just reinstall
my node modules again.
So, code splitting.
React by itself is about 40-ish kilobytes.
And if we go in here,
I think I have a link to that, I do.
42 kilobytes to get react-dom and
then react is about itself 2.5 kilobytes.
So altogether just under 45 kilobytes.
If you're trying to keep your performance
budget under 100 kilobytes for
your data initial page load,
you probably need to do code splitting.
So code splitting is the idea that you
just load the bare minimum necessary code
to get your app up and running, so
the user sees something immediately.
And then you hurry in the background and
you load everything else.
You need some sort of strategy
to be able to split things out.
Luckily for us, React and
Vite work together really well
to make that happen for you.
By the way, I'm not implying that you have
to have a code budget of 100 kilobytes,
but you should have a size budget
of something for your application.
Something that you're
trying to stay under or
some performance timing
you're trying to hit.
You should be thinking about what's a
reasonable amount of time that it takes me
for my app to load in front of a user.
And it's gonna differ by your app,
your users, those kind of things.
If you're writing code that calls,
it's like Uber for helicopters.
They probably have a nice phone.
They're probably on a decent connection.
You can probably have a pretty
high-performance budget.
If you are writing something that keeps
track of a farmer that's watering
their crops, frequently out in the boonies
they have terrible 2G connection,
whether that's in rural South Dakota or
in India or Australia, right?
They're gonna have bad reception, so
your performance budget is very sensitive.
Things like this become very helpful.
So what we're gonna do is we're going
to start splitting things off of our
main package.
So let's go to app.jsx And
up here where we import react,
Right here, please import useState,
lazy and Suspense with a capital S.
Okay, I want you to delete details and
SearchParams, the imports here.
We're gonna split off our various
different routes from our app,
so that it's only loading
the route the user is loading.
So I'm gonna say const Details = lazy,
and then you give it a function,
import, ./Details.
Same thing for SearchParams.
So Details = lazy and then a function
that returns import details and
SearchParams lazy import SearchParams.
If you are not familiar with import,
this is a function that's
built into JavaScript, right?
So it's a built-in function,
that's why we're not importing it or
anything like that.
And this works like require use to for
common JS.
These are static imports at the top,
as in these are not dynamic, but
import is dynamic import for
ES6 modules,
which is what require was for common JS.
So this is saying, if something tries to
render details, panic and load details.
Vite is smart enough to look at that and
say, hey,
this is not required on
the initial page load.
I'm not gonna load it right away.
Okay?
And then now we end up with these details
and these SearchParams components,
and these will not actually load
until their route is actually loaded.
Does that make sense?
So we need to tell it okay,
we're gonna load this later.
But what happens when we hit
something that we need to load?
We're gonna do that with Suspense.
So inside your QueryClientProvider,
put a component here called Suspense,
And that'll wrap everything inside
of QueryClientProvider, and
then we need to tell what the fallback is.
If something inside of this is loading,
what do we do?
Well, we're gonna show just a nice little,
A loading-pane,
With a h2 className=, put whatever emoji
you want in here, this is the loader.
I have just a spiral here, but
feel free to put whatever
emoji you wanna put in there.
If you wanna have a loading dog,
actually, let's do that, that'll be cute.
We'll put a dog and
then we'll have like a spinning dog head.
So that's what Suspense does,
it basically says, hey,
if you hit this high up in the render
tree and something is loading,
show the fallback until
the Suspense has returned.
And I need to restart my app, npm run dev.
Notice when I load the page, just for a
very split second, it's all localhost, so
everything's going really fast.
You probably even missed it,
cuz I missed it.
Let's just put this for
a second on fast 3G, and refresh the page.
You see the spinning dog for a second and
then it loads all those
components in the background.
So just to prove my point,
if I go to my Network tab and
I look at all.
So if I refresh the page,
It can kinda be a little
bit hard to make sense of this because
of how Vite loads everything in dev.
The way that Vite works is it
actually uses the browser's built
in module loader for
all of your locally served things.
So that's why you see so
much of this being loaded separately.
But what you don't see here,
this chunk business,
this is all coming from React, right?
So when you're loading this in production,
it's loading chunks at a time, right?
So what's really cool about
this is now if I load
this, And I'm just gonna close this.
If I click on Luna here,
it's gonna load the details page,
which has not been loaded yet, right?
So I click on this, notice that it
loaded this DOM chunk down here.
All this stuff only came afterwards,
right?
So we've now split out this
particular piece of code.
That is code splitting.
And honestly,
what's cool about React is that's it.
That's all you need to know
about splitting code in React.
Right now we're splitting on route,
which is kind of like the most
brain-dead way of doing it, right?
There's just not like, okay,
we're gonna split based on route, but
there's lots of other things
you can code split on, right?
I actually don't need the modal
until someone actually
clicks on the modal, right?
So what do you do there?
Let's just pop over and
do it really quick.
We're in details,
instead of loading modal,
just delete that and
say const Modal = lazy,
which will load from React.
Function import./modal, right?
Now, if I click Adopt Luna,
it's gonna flash for
just a second on the loading,
and then it'll show this, right?
Again, we're going fast enough here.
Let's just hard refresh the page here.
You see the spinning dog head.
If I click Adopt Luna again,
it's gonna show that spinner, right,
because it's loading modal on the fly.
Now, everything that I've shown you so
far is a massive waste, right?
We've objectively made our apps slower,
because none of these
bundles are very big,
our modal bundle is gonna be
a kilobyte at best, right?
So splitting off a kilobyte,
not worth it, right?
You wanna be splitting off 30 kilobytes,
50 kilobytes, 100 kilobytes, right?
So let's pretend that the modal loaded
all of Moment JS for some weird reason.
Great, code split that,
that makes a ton of sense.
But just to split something for
the sake of splitting it,
you're better off just
leaving it in your bundle.
So it's not a silver bullet.
Please make sure that you're measuring,
that you're actually making your user
experience better rather than worse.
You need to be splitting tens of kilobytes
for code splitting to make sense.
Does that makes sense?
So yeah, that's one of the points
of caution with both this and
server-side rendering.
It's not necessarily always
a better thing to do this.
You need to make sure that
you're measuring your app,
how your users are responding, those
kind of metrics for you to really know,
I'm actually making a positive
difference in my user's life.
Because it's really kind of
a shell game of performance.
If I move something to make
my initial paint faster,
I'm making my time deck interactivity
worse, or things like that.
So just make sure you're keeping
all that stuff in your mind.
So very contrived example, but
it can be super useful.
If you have a huge application you have
to do code splitting in order to get
decent performance.
Okay, any questions about code splitting?
>> Where does the code
rest when we put it lazy?
Will it be downloaded immediately
once the app loads or
downloaded only when required?
>> So, what happens here with import.
Right now, the way that we have this
set up, modal will only be requested,
notice this is a function, right,
once this function is invoked, right?
So lazy will only call this function once
it's actually trying to be rendered,
right?
And then Suspense will catch that and
Suspense will allow that to be paused
while we load modal in the background.
A very valid next question to ask there
is can we get optimistic about it?
Can we load stuff in the background?
The answer is yes, you definitely can.
We're now adding another factor
of complexity here by doing that.
The best way that I found to do
that is you have a service worker.
If you're not familiar
with service workers,
basically what they do is you have your
application, you have your API server.
A service worker sits in the middle, so
any time that your application
makes a request to your API,
it goes through your service worker and
out to the API, right?
That's just how service workers work.
What you can do is you can basically
have your service worker, once it loads,
once your app is loaded, it can say,
okay, the user is trying to load modal.
The the user might try and load details,
they might try and load this.
So they basically go and
grab all the pieces in the background, so
that whenever modal gets requested to
the service worker, it can just say,
guess what, I already have it.
We're not gonna talk to the API right now,
here you go, right?
And so by having that service worker sit
in the middle of that, you can basically
just serve those requests as if they
were happening instantaneously.
And your user never has to know, and
you don't have to write your code any
differently either,
the service worker can handle all of that.
So the way that you do that
is you have Vite or Parcel or
Webpack generate a manifest
of all the chunks.
The service worker, once it's loaded and
once your app is loaded,
can look at that manifest and say, all
right, cool, give me all of those chunks.
And then, it'll do that for you.
Something like Remix actually
does this for you already.
It's actually one of the cool parts of
Remix that they kind of take care of that
entire architecture for
you if you do it correctly, but
it is possible to do yourself as well.
Hopefully, you can see why
I'm not teaching that today.
It's another half hour that we'd be
going over setting over service workers,
and this is not a class
on service workers.
So is there a class on service workers,
Mark?
>> We actually have two,
we have one on progressive web
apps with Maximiliano Bergman.
>> Okay, that'd be a good one.
>> And we also have a deep dive on
service worker with Kyle Simpson.
>> Yeah,
if you don't know what I'm talking about,
those would be two good
courses to go take.